commerce/developer-guide/tutorial/implementing-a-new-basic-payment-method/README.md, before:

# Implementing a New Basic Payment Method

This tutorial will show you how to add a new basic payment method by implementing  the `CommercePaymentMethod` interface.

Liferay Commerce provides several out of the box payment methods including _Authorize.Net_, _Mercanet_, _Money Order_, and _PayPal_.

![Out of the box payment methods](./images/01.png "Out of the box payment methods")

## Overview

1. **Deploy an Example**
1. **Walk Through the Example**
1. **Additional Information**

## Deploy an Example

In this section, we will get an example payment method up and running on your instance of Liferay Commerce. Follow these steps:

1. Start Liferay Commerce.

    ```bash
    docker run -it -p 8080:8080 liferay/commerce:2.0.2
    ```

1. Download and unzip the [Acme Commerce Payment Method]() to your project directory.

    ```bash
    curl liferay-b1c3.zip
    ```

    ```bash
    unzip liferay-b1c3.zip
    ```

1. Go to `b1c3-impl`.

    ```bash
    cd b1c3-impl
    ```

1. Build and deploy the example.

    ```bash
    ./gradlew deploy -Ddeploy.docker.container.id=$(docker ps -lq)
    ```

    >Note: This command is the same as copying the deployed jars to /opt/liferay/osgi/modules on the Docker container.

1. Confirm the deployment in the Liferay Docker container console.

    ```bash
    STARTED com.acme.b1c3.internal.commerce.payment.method_1.0.0
    ```

1. Verify that the example new basic payment method was added. Open your browser to `https://localhost:8080` and navigate to _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Settings_ → _Payment Methods_.

   ![Acme Commerce Payment Method Added](./images/02.png "Acme Commerce Payment Method Added")

Congratulations, you've successfully built and deployed a new basic payment method that implements `CommercePaymentMethod`.

Next, let's dive deeper to learn more.

## Walk Through the Example

In this section, we will take a more in-depth review of the example we deployed. First, we will annotate the class for OSGi registration; second we will implement the `CommercePaymentMethod` interface; and third, we will implement the payment method logic.

### Annotate Your Class for OSGi Registration

```java
@Component(
	immediate = true,
	property = "commerce.payment.engine.method.key=" + B1C3CommercePaymentMethod.KEY,
	service = CommercePaymentMethod.class
)
public class B1C3CommercePaymentMethod implements CommercePaymentMethod {

	public static final String KEY = "b1c3-commerce-payment-method";
```

>It is important to provide a distinct key for your payment method so that Liferay Commerce can distinguish your new payment method from others in the [payment method registry](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/method/CommercePaymentMethodRegistry.java). Reusing a key that is already in use will override the existing associated method.

### Implement the `CommercePaymentMethod` Interface

The following five methods are required:

```java
	public String getDescription(Locale locale);
```

```java
	public String getKey();
```

```java
	public String getName(Locale locale);
```

```java
	public int getPaymentType();
```

```java
	public String getServletPath();
```

To better understand each of the required methods mentioned above, let's look at [B1C3CommercePaymentMethod.java](./liferay-b1c3.zip/b1c3-impl/src/main/java/com/acme/b1c3/internal/commerce/payment/method/B1C3CommercePaymentMethod.java). We will review the implementation of each required method in sequence.

1. `public String getDescription(Locale locale);`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getDescription(Locale locale) {
		ResourceBundle resourceBundle = ResourceBundleUtil.getBundle(
			"content.Language", locale, getClass());

		return LanguageUtil.get(
			resourceBundle, "b1c3-commerce-payment-method-description");
	}
    ```

    >Populates the "Description" column in the Payment Methods administration page. `ResourceBundleUtil` is a Liferay class that provides support for multiple locales. Visit [Supporting Multiple Locales on Liferay]() for more information.

1. `public String getKey();`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getKey() {
		return "b1c3-commerce-payment-method-registry-key";
	}
    ```

    >Provides a unique identifier for the payment method in the registry. The key can be used to fetch the payment method from the registry programmatically if necessary. Reusing a key that is already in use will override the existing associated method.

1. `public String getName(Locale locale);`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getName(Locale locale) {
		ResourceBundle resourceBundle = ResourceBundleUtil.getBundle(
			"content.Language", locale, getClass());

		return LanguageUtil.get(
			resourceBundle, "b1c3-commerce-payment-method-name");
	}
    ```

    >Populates the "Name" column in the Payment Methods administration page. `ResourceBundleUtil` is a Liferay class that provides support for multiple locales. Visit [Supporting Multiple Locales on Liferay]() for more information.

1. `public int getPaymentType();`

    ```java
	@Override
	public int getPaymentType() {
		return CommercePaymentConstants.COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_OFFLINE;
	}
    ```

    >Identifies the way in which the Payment Engine will use a given Payment Method. In this example, `COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_OFFLINE` informs the payment engine that there are no online processing requirements for this Payment Method. There are two other payment type constants available out of the box: `COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_ONLINE_STANDARD` and `COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_ONLINE_REDIRECT`. For more information see [Implementing a New Online Payment Method]().

1. `public String getServletPath()`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getServletPath() {
		return null;
	}
    ```

    >When implementing an online payment method, a servlet may be required to enable proper interfacing with an external payment provider. Since no servlet path is required for an offline payment method, `getServletPath` should return `null`.

### Create Your Payment Method

The following methods are necessary to define your custom payment method logic. There are many more methods that can be implemented that provide additional functionality - such as subscriptions, recurring payments, and refunds. These can be seen in the [`CommercePaymentMethod`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/method/CommercePaymentMethod.java) interface. These methods come in pairs: one method to enable and the other to implement a given piece of functionality.

1. `public boolean isCompleteEnabled()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public boolean isCompleteEnabled() {
			return true;
		}
    ```

    >For the payment method to complete payments, this must return true. `completePayment` is invoked when the payment is fulfilled. In this way you are indicating to the Payment Engine what functionality is supported by your Payment Method.

1. `public CommercePaymentResult completePayment()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public CommercePaymentResult completePayment(
				CommercePaymentRequest commercePaymentRequest)
			throws Exception {

			return new CommercePaymentResult(
				null, commercePaymentRequest.getCommerceOrderId(),
				CommerceOrderConstants.PAYMENT_STATUS_PAID, false, null, null,
				Collections.emptyList(), true);
		}
    ```

    >This is where custom payment logic will be implemented.  `CommercePaymentResult` is a simple container that should store information relevant to the completion of a payment process. For more information see [`CommercePaymentResult.java`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/result/CommercePaymentResult.java).

1. `public boolean isProcessPaymentEnabled()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public boolean isProcessPaymentEnabled() {
			return true;
		}
    ```

    >For the payment method to process payments, this must return true. `processPayment` is the initial step that is executed when a customer submits an order. In this way you are indicating to the Payment Engine what functionality is supported by your Payment Method.

1. `public CommercePaymentResult processPayment()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public CommercePaymentResult processPayment(
				CommercePaymentRequest commercePaymentRequest)
			throws Exception {

			return new CommercePaymentResult(
				null, commercePaymentRequest.getCommerceOrderId(),
				CommerceOrderConstants.PAYMENT_STATUS_AUTHORIZED, false, null, null,
				Collections.emptyList(), true);
		}
    ```

    >This is where custom payment logic will be implemented. This `CommercePaymentResult` should store information relevant to the processing of a payment. For more information see [`CommercePaymentResult.java`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/result/CommercePaymentResult.java)

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You now know the basics for implementing the `CommercePaymentMethod` interface and have added a new basic payment method to Liferay Commerce.

## Additional Information

* [Supporting Multiple Locales on Liferay]()
* [Implementing a New Online Payment Method]()

Commit message:

Add mention of language properties to payment methods article (to keep consistent)

commerce/developer-guide/tutorial/implementing-a-new-basic-payment-method/README.md, after:

# Implementing a New Basic Payment Method

This tutorial will show you how to add a new basic payment method by implementing  the `CommercePaymentMethod` interface.

Liferay Commerce provides several out of the box payment methods including _Authorize.Net_, _Mercanet_, _Money Order_, and _PayPal_.

![Out of the box payment methods](./images/01.png "Out of the box payment methods")

## Overview

1. **Deploy an Example**
1. **Walk Through the Example**
1. **Additional Information**

## Deploy an Example

In this section, we will get an example payment method up and running on your instance of Liferay Commerce. Follow these steps:

1. Start Liferay Commerce.

    ```bash
    docker run -it -p 8080:8080 liferay/commerce:2.0.2
    ```

1. Download and unzip the [Acme Commerce Payment Method]() to your project directory.

    ```bash
    curl liferay-b1c3.zip
    ```

    ```bash
    unzip liferay-b1c3.zip
    ```

1. Go to `b1c3-impl`.

    ```bash
    cd b1c3-impl
    ```

1. Build and deploy the example.

    ```bash
    ./gradlew deploy -Ddeploy.docker.container.id=$(docker ps -lq)
    ```

    >Note: This command is the same as copying the deployed jars to /opt/liferay/osgi/modules on the Docker container.

1. Confirm the deployment in the Liferay Docker container console.

    ```bash
    STARTED com.acme.b1c3.internal.commerce.payment.method_1.0.0
    ```

1. Verify that the example new basic payment method was added. Open your browser to `https://localhost:8080` and navigate to _Control Panel_ → _Commerce_ → _Settings_ → _Payment Methods_.

   ![Acme Commerce Payment Method Added](./images/02.png "Acme Commerce Payment Method Added")

Congratulations, you've successfully built and deployed a new basic payment method that implements `CommercePaymentMethod`.

Next, let's dive deeper to learn more.

## Walk Through the Example

In this section, we will take a more in-depth review of the example we deployed. First, we will annotate the class for OSGi registration; second we will implement the `CommercePaymentMethod` interface; and third, we will implement the payment method logic.

### Annotate Your Class for OSGi Registration

```java
@Component(
	immediate = true,
	property = "commerce.payment.engine.method.key=" + B1C3CommercePaymentMethod.KEY,
	service = CommercePaymentMethod.class
)
public class B1C3CommercePaymentMethod implements CommercePaymentMethod {

	public static final String KEY = "b1c3-commerce-payment-method";
```

>It is important to provide a distinct key for your payment method so that Liferay Commerce can distinguish your new payment method from others in the [payment method registry](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/method/CommercePaymentMethodRegistry.java). Reusing a key that is already in use will override the existing associated method.

### Implement the `CommercePaymentMethod` Interface

The following five methods are required:

```java
	public String getDescription(Locale locale);
```

```java
	public String getKey();
```

```java
	public String getName(Locale locale);
```

```java
	public int getPaymentType();
```

```java
	public String getServletPath();
```

To better understand each of the required methods mentioned above, let's look at [B1C3CommercePaymentMethod.java](./liferay-b1c3.zip/b1c3-impl/src/main/java/com/acme/b1c3/internal/commerce/payment/method/B1C3CommercePaymentMethod.java). We will review the implementation of each required method in sequence.

1. `public String getDescription(Locale locale);`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getDescription(Locale locale) {
		ResourceBundle resourceBundle = ResourceBundleUtil.getBundle(
			"content.Language", locale, getClass());

		return LanguageUtil.get(
			resourceBundle, "b1c3-commerce-payment-method-description");
	}
    ```

    >Populates the "Description" column in the Payment Methods administration page. `ResourceBundleUtil` is a Liferay class that provides support for multiple locales. Visit [Supporting Multiple Locales on Liferay]() for more information.

1. `public String getKey();`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getKey() {
		return "b1c3-commerce-payment-method-registry-key";
	}
    ```

    >Provides a unique identifier for the payment method in the registry. The key can be used to fetch the payment method from the registry programmatically if necessary. Reusing a key that is already in use will override the existing associated method.

1. `public String getName(Locale locale);`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getName(Locale locale) {
		ResourceBundle resourceBundle = ResourceBundleUtil.getBundle(
			"content.Language", locale, getClass());

		return LanguageUtil.get(
			resourceBundle, "b1c3-commerce-payment-method-name");
	}
    ```

    >Populates the "Name" column in the Payment Methods administration page. `ResourceBundleUtil` is a Liferay class that provides support for multiple locales. Visit [Supporting Multiple Locales on Liferay]() for more information.

1. `public int getPaymentType();`

    ```java
	@Override
	public int getPaymentType() {
		return CommercePaymentConstants.COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_OFFLINE;
	}
    ```

    >Identifies the way in which the Payment Engine will use a given Payment Method. In this example, `COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_OFFLINE` informs the payment engine that there are no online processing requirements for this Payment Method. There are two other payment type constants available out of the box: `COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_ONLINE_STANDARD` and `COMMERCE_PAYMENT_METHOD_TYPE_ONLINE_REDIRECT`. For more information see [Implementing a New Online Payment Method]().

1. `public String getServletPath()`

    ```java
	@Override
	public String getServletPath() {
		return null;
	}
    ```

    >When implementing an online payment method, a servlet may be required to enable proper interfacing with an external payment provider. Since no servlet path is required for an offline payment method, `getServletPath` should return `null`.

### Create Your Payment Method

The following methods are necessary to define your custom payment method logic. There are many more methods that can be implemented that provide additional functionality - such as subscriptions, recurring payments, and refunds. These can be seen in the [`CommercePaymentMethod`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/method/CommercePaymentMethod.java) interface. These methods come in pairs: one method to enable and the other to implement a given piece of functionality.

1. `public boolean isCompleteEnabled()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public boolean isCompleteEnabled() {
			return true;
		}
    ```

    >For the payment method to complete payments, this must return true. `completePayment` is invoked when the payment is fulfilled. In this way you are indicating to the Payment Engine what functionality is supported by your Payment Method.

1. `public CommercePaymentResult completePayment()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public CommercePaymentResult completePayment(
				CommercePaymentRequest commercePaymentRequest)
			throws Exception {

			return new CommercePaymentResult(
				null, commercePaymentRequest.getCommerceOrderId(),
				CommerceOrderConstants.PAYMENT_STATUS_PAID, false, null, null,
				Collections.emptyList(), true);
		}
    ```

    >This is where custom payment logic will be implemented.  `CommercePaymentResult` is a simple container that should store information relevant to the completion of a payment process. For more information see [`CommercePaymentResult.java`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/result/CommercePaymentResult.java).

1. `public boolean isProcessPaymentEnabled()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public boolean isProcessPaymentEnabled() {
			return true;
		}
    ```

    >For the payment method to process payments, this must return true. `processPayment` is the initial step that is executed when a customer submits an order. In this way you are indicating to the Payment Engine what functionality is supported by your Payment Method.

1. `public CommercePaymentResult processPayment()`

    ```java
		@Override
		public CommercePaymentResult processPayment(
				CommercePaymentRequest commercePaymentRequest)
			throws Exception {

			return new CommercePaymentResult(
				null, commercePaymentRequest.getCommerceOrderId(),
				CommerceOrderConstants.PAYMENT_STATUS_AUTHORIZED, false, null, null,
				Collections.emptyList(), true);
		}
    ```

    >This is where custom payment logic will be implemented. This `CommercePaymentResult` should store information relevant to the processing of a payment. For more information see [`CommercePaymentResult.java`](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/liferay/com-liferay-commerce/7.1.x/commerce-api/src/main/java/com/liferay/commerce/payment/result/CommercePaymentResult.java)

We will also need to add the language key for our payment method's name and description. Add the keys and their values to a Language.properties file within our module:

```
b1c3-commerce-payment-method-description=This is the Acme Commerce Payment Method.
b1c3-commerce-payment-method-name=Acme Commerce Payment Method
```

## Conclusion

Congratulations! You now know the basics for implementing the `CommercePaymentMethod` interface and have added a new basic payment method to Liferay Commerce.

## Additional Information

* [Supporting Multiple Locales on Liferay]()
* [Implementing a New Online Payment Method]()
