docs/en/06-manage-and-optimize/04-real-time-alerts.markdown, before:

---
header-id: real-time-alerts
---

# Real-Time Alerts

Liferay DXP Cloud can alert system administrators of unexpected behaviors in a project. Unexpected behaviors include (but are not limited to) auto-scaling, higher than expected consumption of memory, CPU reaching an alloted quota, or database connection issues. This article documents how to set up alerts on the console and receive email notifications.

## Managing Alert Preferences

While logged into to the Liferay DXP Cloud Management Console:

1. Click on the profile photo at the top-right corner of the navigation bar.
1. Click _Alerts Preferences_.

   ![Real Time Alerts](./real-time-alerts/images/01.png)

1. Check the relevant boxes for status alerts notifications.
1. Click _Save Alerts Preferences_.

The Alerts preferences have now been configured. To view the alerts notifications and the information found, see the Alerts Page section below.

## Alerts Page

The _Alerts_ page contains a list of behaviors that may occur in the various environments. The number and types of alerts that are sent can be configured in the _Alerts Preference_ page.

1. To access the _Alerts_ page, click the _Alerts_ icon on the top navigation bar.

    ![Real Time Alerts](./real-time-alerts/images/02.png)

The following tables describe the top level actions available:

| Button | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Unread alerts / All alerts | Filter to display only unread statuses or all statuses |
| All environments | Filter to select alerts by environment |
| Mark All as Read | Button to mark all alerts as read |

The following table describes the information found in each column.

| Status | Description |
| --- | --- |
| Status | _Ongoing_ or _Resolved_ describe the current state of an event |
| Started at | The time an event began |
| Duration | Length of time an event lasted |

Commit message:

Transferring edits from liferay-docs-dxp-cloud repo

docs/en/06-manage-and-optimize/04-real-time-alerts.markdown, after:

---
header-id: real-time-alerts
---

# Real-Time Alerts

Liferay DXP Cloud can alert system administrators of unexpected behaviors in a 
project. Unexpected behaviors include (but are not limited to) auto-scaling, 
higher than expected memory consumption, CPU reaching an allotted quota, or 
database connection issues. Here, you'll learn how to configure and view alerts. 

## Alert Preferences

You can configure your alert preferences via the DXP Cloud management console. 
Follow these steps to do so: 

1.  Click your profile photo at the top-right corner of the navigation bar and 
    select *Alerts Preferences*. 

2.  For each alert, select the checkbox for how you wish to receive it (console 
    and/or email). To disable an alert, unselect all its checkboxes. 

3.  Click *Save Alerts Preferences* when you're finished. 

![Real Time Alerts](./real-time-alerts/images/01.png)

## Alerts Page

You can access Alerts delivered to your console from the *Alerts* page. To 
access this page, click the bell icon in the top navigation bar. A table shows 
the following information for each alert: 

-   **Status:** The alert's current state. Each alert is triggered by a specific 
    event. If the event is still happening, its alert status is *Ongoing*. If 
    the event is finished, the alert status is *Resolved*. 
-   **Started at:** The time the alert began. 
-   **Duration:** How long the alert lasted. 

You can perform the following actions via the buttons above the table: 

-   **Unread alerts/All alerts:** View only unread alerts, or all alerts.
-   **All environments/other environments:** Filter alerts by environment.
-   **Mark all as read:** Mark all alerts as read. 
-   **Alerts Preferences:** Go to your alert preferences page. 

![Real Time Alerts](./real-time-alerts/images/02.png)
