commerce/user-guide/customers/account-management/creating-a-new-account/README.md, before:

# Creating a New Account

There are two ways to create an account: 1) using the _Account Management_ widget and 2) through the _Control Panel_. Access to the _Control Panel_ is typically restricted to those with administrative permissions for the store or installation.

## Using the Account Management Widget

1. Click the left _Navigation Menu_ → _Account Management_.
1. Click the _Add Account_ button.

    ![image01](./images/01.png)

1. Enter the following:
    * **Account Name**: South Bay Auto Parts Distributors
    * **Administrator's Email**: (Enter a valid email address or select from an existing one.)

    ![image02](./images/02.png)

1. Click _Create Account_.

The new account has been created.

## Using the Control Panel

Users who have administrative permissions for the store or installation may create and update account information in the _Control Panel_.

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Users_ → _Accounts_.
1. Click the (+) button to add a new account.
1. Enter the following:
    * **Name**: _your company name_ (Acme International)
    * **Email**: _your company email_ (Acme1@acme.org)
    * **Type**: _Business_
    * **VAT Number**: _your VAT number*_

    ![image03](./images/03.png)

1. Click _Save_.

The new account has been created using the Control Panel. Click _Addresses_ to update the account's addresses. For more information, see the [Adding Addresses to an Account](../adding-addresses-to-an-account/README.md#using-the-control-panel) article.

## Additional Information

* [Introduction to Accounts](../introduction-to-accounts/README.md)
* [Assigning User Roles](../assigning-account-roles/README.md)
* [Inviting Users to an Account](../inviting-users-to-an-account/README.md)
* [Adding Addresses to an Account](../adding-addresses-to-an-account/README.md)
* [Creating a New Account Group](../creating-a-new-account-group/README.md)

Commit message:

Updated articles with [alt] for all images

commerce/user-guide/customers/account-management/creating-a-new-account/README.md, after:

# Creating a New Account

There are two ways to create an account: 1) using the _Account Management_ widget and 2) through the _Control Panel_. Access to the _Control Panel_ is typically restricted to those with administrative permissions for the store or installation.

## Using the Account Management Widget

1. Click the left _Navigation Menu_ → _Account Management_.
1. Click the _Add Account_ button.

    ![Add Account Button](./images/01.png)

1. Enter the following:
    * **Account Name**: South Bay Auto Parts Distributors
    * **Administrator's Email**: (Enter a valid email address or select from an existing one.)

    ![Creating a New Account with the Widget](./images/02.png)

1. Click _Create Account_.

The new account has been created.

## Using the Control Panel

Users who have administrative permissions for the store or installation may create and update account information in the _Control Panel_.

1. Navigate to the _Control Panel_ → _Users_ → _Accounts_.
1. Click the (+) button to add a new account.
1. Enter the following:
    * **Name**: _your company name_ (Acme International)
    * **Email**: _your company email_ (Acme1@acme.org)
    * **Type**: _Business_
    * **VAT Number**: _your VAT number*_

    ![Creating a New Account in the Control Panel](./images/03.png)

1. Click _Save_.

The new account has been created using the Control Panel. Click _Addresses_ to update the account's addresses. For more information, see the [Adding Addresses to an Account](../adding-addresses-to-an-account/README.md#using-the-control-panel) article.

## Additional Information

* [Introduction to Accounts](../introduction-to-accounts/README.md)
* [Assigning User Roles](../assigning-account-roles/README.md)
* [Inviting Users to an Account](../inviting-users-to-an-account/README.md)
* [Adding Addresses to an Account](../adding-addresses-to-an-account/README.md)
* [Creating a New Account Group](../creating-a-new-account-group/README.md)
